So we've loaded the photos and now we're going to help the system recognize where faces are in those
photos.
And we have some methods to do that.
So we're going to go to the Show Images section and we're going to generate a code that allows us to
locate control face, and we're going to use a variable to store the location of that face.
It's going to be called face a location.
And this is going to be equal to our dot face location.
And inside these parentheses, we're going to put controlled picture, which is the picture that we
want to find the face for.
And although we're sending a single image which is controlled picture, we have to clarify that we are
sending the first element of that picture.
So after the parentheses, we put index zero.
Now what we need to do is to encode the face that we have detected.
So we're going to create another variable called coded face a.
And what do we mean by encode?
It simply means to make the system understand where what we need is meaning the face, but not through
the visual image, not through the pixels that we humans see, but through a digital code formed by
a series of numbers, which is how the computer can see the images.
So then we put our dot face encoding, which is a method that asks us to tell the name of the picture
we want to encode, which is going to be controlled picture.
And we're also going to establish that it is index zero.
And now that we have detected the face and we've encoded the face in our picture, i.e. the system already
identifies where there is a face, we're going to do something that allows the human user to see where
the face is in the picture.
So let's make it so the system can frame it with a box.
We're going to create a rectangle that shows where the face is in the picture.
For that, we're going to need the location values we got in face a location.
So see how this looks.
Let's print it out.
Face a location on screen so you can see what it looks like.
So we run it.
And here we're going to get our images again.
And here we have them.
But notice now that in the console, you see a tuple that contains these phone numbers.
These numbers are like the coordinates.
They are the four points on the image that determine the force size of the rectangle that encloses the
face.
The top line of the rectangle is at pixel 139 on the Y axis, counting from zero at the top edge of
the window.
And the right line of the rectangle is at 454 pixels from the left edge of the window on the x axis.
The bottom line is a pixel 268 on the Y axis and the left side at 325 pixels on the x axis.
So with these parameters, we can build a rectangle on the screen that allows us to mark where the face
is located.
So let's remove this print that was just to show you the images and let's call a clarification that
says Show Rectangle.
That's going to happen thanks to the CV two element with the Rectangle method, which of course is going
to ask us for some parameters.
First, they asked us for the image on which we're going to draw the rectangle, which is controlled
picture, and then it will ask us for the point one which are the coordinates of the upper left corner,
and the point two which are the coordinates of the lower right corner.
When we determine the coordinates of these two opposite corners of the rectangle, the program will
have enough information to draw the complete rectangle.
So where do we have the information of these coordinates in the values of the tuple that we have obtained
in Face a location.
So we said that 0.1 is the coordinates of the top and left sides.
These values are stored in face a location index three and in face a location index zero respectively.
So we have established the first vertex, the top left vertex of our rectangle.
Now we need to set point two, which would be the values of the right and bottom sides.
So we set another tuple with face a location index one and face a location index two.
And that's how we get the location of the second vertex.
But we can also set some more parameters.
So let's put a comma to go to the next parameter, which is the colour that our rectangle is going to
be.
We construct it with our GP and if we want it to be green, for example, I put zero in red.
I put 255 in green and finally zero in blue so that it only has the green component.
So on the other parameter that we're going to set is its thickness.
So I'm going to assign it to points.
And with that, we'll be able to see our rectangle.
So let's run it.
Here are the images again.
But this time the control picture has a green rectangle that marks exactly where face recognition has
said, Here is a face and what a face.
We're going to close the pictures and now we're going to do the same but with test picture.
So let's copy this and we put test in the title and let's change A to B, where appropriate.
And we also change control to test.
And here in show rectangle, let's copy the CV to to fit the test variables and we change the test here.
And face B in all these places here, here and here.
So we execute it and our images will come.
Let's hope that they have their rectangles.
And indeed, although they are very different photos in two very different positions, the system has
said here are two faces.
It still doesn't know if it's the same person or if they are different.
It only knows that there are two faces.
So let's go to the next lesson to the third step of facial recognition process.